diff3

The diff3 command in Linux is used to merge three files with differences into a single file, showing the changes made to each file. It is commonly used for resolving conflicts in code or text files that have been edited by multiple users.

Here is the basic syntax for the diff3 command:

css
Copy code
diff3 [options] file1 file2 file3
Here, file1, file2, and file3 are the three files to merge. The diff3 command will compare the contents of these three files and merge them into a single file, showing the changes made to each file.

Here are some commonly used options for the diff3 command:

-m: Outputs the merged file, with conflicts indicated by special markers.
-A: Specifies that all changes from each file should be included in the merged file, even if they are duplicates.
-E: Specifies that changes from each file should be included in the merged file only if they are unique.
Here are some examples of how to use the diff3 command:

To merge three files and display the merged file with conflict markers:
Copy code
diff3 -m file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt > merged.txt
This command merges the contents of file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt into a single file called merged.txt, with conflicts indicated by special markers.

To merge three files and display all changes from each file in the merged file:
css
Copy code
diff3 -A file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt > merged.txt
This command merges the contents of file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt into a single file called merged.txt, including all changes from each file, even if they are duplicates.

To merge three files and display only unique changes from each file in the merged file:
mathematica
Copy code
diff3 -E file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt > merged.txt
This command merges the contents of file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt into a single file called merged.txt, including only unique changes from each file.

These are just a few examples of how to use the diff3 command in Linux. With its powerful capabilities for merging files and resolving conflicts, diff3 is a useful tool for collaborative editing of code or text files.
